---
title: "About"
date: 2014-01-01
categories: about
excerpt: "A little about me and this blog."
---

bq. The sum total of the habits of a man is his nature. It has come about as a result of his giving himself over to the bent of his mind.
-- The Bhagavad Gita

bq. A human being should be able to change a diaper, plan an invasion, butcher a hog, conn a ship, design a building, write a sonnet, balance accounts, build a wall, set a bone, comfort the dying, take orders, give orders, cooperate, act alone, solve equations, analyze a new problem, pitch manure, program a computer, cook a tasty meal, fight efficiently, die gallantly. Specialization is for insects.
-- Robert A. Heinlein

h1. Biography

Originally born in El Salvador, I am a senior in Computer Science at Virginia Tech. My passion for learning drives me to constantly innovate and embrace change. The best way to learn, however, is by doing. The application of theoretical knowledge to the wonderfully complex and imperfect world we live in is what keeps me motivated. I strive to strike a balance between pragmatism, theory and research. Whenever possible I also try to incorporate other disciplines and areas of study into my work. It is by this mixture of different areas of expertise and working with other highly motivated individuals that I believe the best type of work can be achieved. I love working in groups. In my experience a group of well balanced individuals can out perform any lone ranger (however brilliant he/she might be) any day of the week. After all, we human beings are social creatures.

h1. Interests & Work

- Ephemeral Hadoop <span class="subscript">Class project</span> := As my "senior capstone project":1, me and four other members created an ephemeral implementation of Hadoop. The ephemeral part of the title refers to the ability to use idle computational power of any computer in a network and put it to work. This program works by creating as many Virtual Machines as desired in each computer on a network. These VMs will then automatically find each other through the use of a gossip protocol, and finally start running Hadoop. When the Map/Reduce job is done the VM will shut down and the whole processes can be repeated again.

- The GNU C Library := This is an implementation of the GNU C Library manual with improved navigation and interface. The original manual leaves much to be desired. This implementation uses the orignal text and puts it a more modern layout. The page is dynamically loaded, eliminated the need to download the entire library at once. It also provides a better approach to navigation, providing for a better reading experience. You can see it live here: "GNU C Library":5

- B-Tree visualization infrastructure := While working with "OpenDSA":3, I extended a JavaScript visualization library to support the creation of B-Tree. This involved the modification and adaptation of existing data structures to allow for the needs of a B-Tree. Currently, I'm in the process of implementing the B-Tree algorithm in JavaScript that will drive the visualization.

- Web Development Club := I serve as advisor to the "Web Development Club @ Virginia Tech":2. This is a new club at Virginia Tech and we aim to educate people in the different areas of web development. Web technologies are unique in their variety and number. This area of software development is specially challenging because of the numerous technologies that are used in even the simplest of web pages.

- This Blog! := Learning is fun, but doing is even better. There are so many new things coming out all the time and I love reading about them. When reading is not enough I like to do. This blog often serves as a guinea pig of sorts and allows me to get hands on experience with new technologies and tech stacks.

- Web Server <span class="subscript">Class project</span> := Developed a simple HTTP server that followed the HTTP/1.0 and 1.1 standard. I implemented this in C and gained experience in dealing with network connections, sockets, pipes, and thread pools.

- Memory Allocator <span class="subscript">Class project</span> := This memory allocator supported the same functionality as malloc, free, and realloc. On top of having the same functionality as these functions it also had comparable performance (92%). This memory allocator was also design to work on 32 and 64-bit architectures.

h1. Skills

h4. Programming languages

* Java        <span class="subscript">Proficient  </span>
* C           <span class="subscript">Proficient  </span>
* JavaScript  <span class="subscript">Proficient  </span>
* HTML        <span class="subscript">Proficient  </span>
* CSS         <span class="subscript">Proficient  </span>
* SQL         <span class="subscript">Knowledge of</span>
* PHP         <span class="subscript">Knowledge of</span>
* Ruby        <span class="subscript">Knowledge of</span>
* Python      <span class="subscript">Knowledge of</span>
* Bash script <span class="subscript">Knowledge of</span>

h4. Platforms/technologies

* Git (github: "elmerland":4)
* Rails
* Django
* Jekyll
* Wordpress
* MySQL
* Sqlite
* PostgresQL
* Bash/Zsh/CMD
* Windows/Mac/Linux

h4. Design and Photography

* Photoshop
* Illustrator
* Lightroom

<style type="text/css">
  .subscript {
    color: gray;
    font-size: .7em;
  }
  .subscript:after {
    content: "Note: ";
  }
  /*.class-project {
    display: block;
  }*/
  .class-project:before {
    content: "Note: ";
  }
</style>

[1]https://github.com/rich4756/hforhadoop
[2]http://www.webdev.org.vt.edu/
[3]http://algoviz.org/OpenDSA/
[4]https://github.com/elmerland
[5]/gnu_manual.html
