---
title: "GNU Manual Improved"
date: 2015-03-18
categories: experiment gnu
excerpt: "What's not to love about the GNU C Library manual. Its long, it looks like crap and its older than all of us. This is my attempt to improve it!"
---

What's not to love about the GNU C Library manual. Its long, it looks like crap and its older than all of us. For some time now I have been wanting to create a new version of the manual with a refreshed look and a new navigation system. Getting anywhere in that manual is a chore, and I always seem to end up with ten tabs open to different sections. So please, check out my take on the GNU manual and let me know what you think in the comments.

p{font-size: 2em; text-align: center}. "Yet Another GNU C Library Manual":1

p{font-size: 1.5em;}. "Original GNU C Library Manual - entirely on one web page":2<br>"Original GNU C Library Manual - one web page per node":3

The original GNU C library manual is very dry and rudimentary to say the least. The page can be accessed one of two ways. It can either be viewed as one monolithic page with the entire text in one page, or it can be accessed one section at a time while navigating with next/previous links. The monolithic page means scrolling endlessly between sections and jumping around everywhere. The next mode, accessing one section at a time is a slight improvement. However, each section tends to be somewhat small, and the information the user needs is often spread across several sections. Resulting in the user opening multiple tabs in an attempt to keep track of all the relevant information.

My approach, combines the two "viewing" modes. Exploiting the advantages of displaying a lot of text when the user wants to, and hiding sections when they are not relevant. The design consists of three parts. First, the side bar to the left shows a list of all the chapters in the manual. Offering a quick way to jump between chapters. When the user clicks on a chapter, it gets loaded to the main area of the screen. Initially displaying the chapter preface and hiding the text for all sections and subsections. The user can then click on any relevant section. This will expand the section and show its text. The same procedure applies for subsections and sub-subsections.

Resulting in a modular view, where the display shows the important text and hides the rest. All the while making it easy to jump from chapter to chapter.

<notextile>
<!-- 
TODO:

- Expand/Collapse all button
- Quick local search (http://lunrjs.com/)
- Subsections expanded by default
- Improve readability for text based browsers and screen readers
- Fix back button! (http://diveintohtml5.info/history.html, https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/API/DOM/Manipulating_the_browser_history) -->
</notextile>

[1]/gnu_manual.html
[2]http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_mono/libc.html
[3]http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/manual/html_node/index.html
